https://www.rev.com/blog/transcripts/donald-trump-chris-wallace-interview-transcript-july-19

Donald Trump Chris Wallace Interview Transcript July 19

Chris Wallace: (00:00)
And hello again from Fox News in Washington today from the White House. We’re on the president’s patio, just outside the oval office. President Trump, you’ve agreed to answer all manner of questions, no subject off limits. Thank you, and welcome back to Fox News Sunday.

Donald Trump: (00:15)
Thank you very much.

Chris Wallace: (00:17)
Let’s start with the surge of the coronavirus across the country in recent months. You still talk about it as, “Burning embers,” but I want to put up a chart that shows where we are with the illness over the last four months. As you can see, we hit a peak here in April, 36,000 cases-

Donald Trump: (00:37)
Cases.

Chris Wallace: (00:37)
… a day.

Donald Trump: (00:38)
Yeah, cases.

Chris Wallace: (00:39)
Then it went down and now since June, it has gone up, more than doubled. One day this week, 75,000 new cases.

Donald Trump: (00:48)
That’s right.

Chris Wallace: (00:48)
More than double the old-

Donald Trump: (00:49)
Chris, that’s because we have great testing, because we have the best testing in the world. If we didn’t test, you wouldn’t be able to show that chart. If we tested half as much, those numbers would be down. We tested-

Chris Wallace: (00:59)
But this isn’t burning embers, sir. This is a forest fire.

Donald Trump: (01:01)
No, no. But I don’t say… I say flames. We’ll put out the flames and we’ll put out, in some cases, just burning embers. We also have burning embers. We have embers and we do have flames. Florida became more flame-like, but it’s going to be under control. And it’s not just this country. It’s many countries. We don’t talk about it in the news. They don’t talk about Mexico and Brazil and still parts of Europe, which actually got hit sooner than us, so it’s a little ahead of us in that sense. But you take a look, why don’t they talk about Mexico, which is not helping us? And all I can say is thank God I built most of the wall because if I didn’t have the wall up we would have a much bigger problem with Mexico.

Chris Wallace: (01:38)
But sir, we have the seventh highest mortality rate in the world. Our mortality rate is higher than Brazil, it’s higher than Russia, and the European Union has us on a travel ban.

Donald Trump: (01:50)
Yeah, I think what we’ll do… Well, we have them on a travel ban, too, Chris. I closed them off. If you remember, I was the one that did the European Union very early. But when you talk about mortality rates, I think it’s the opposite. I think we have one of the lowest mortality rates in the world.

Chris Wallace: (02:04)
That’s not true, sir.

Donald Trump: (02:05)
Well we’re going to take a look.

Chris Wallace: (02:05)
We had 900 deaths on a single day.

Donald Trump: (02:08)
We will take a look.

Chris Wallace: (02:09)
This week-

Donald Trump: (02:10)
Ready?

Chris Wallace: (02:11)
Do you contribute-

Donald Trump: (02:12)
Would you please get me the mortality rate?

Speaker 1: (02:14)
Yeah.

Donald Trump: (02:14)
Kaylee’s right here. I heard we had one of the lowest, maybe the lowest mortality rate anywhere in the world. Do you have the numbers, please? Because I heard we had the best mortality rate.

Kaylee: (02:23)
This is it. Please speed up [inaudible 00:02:26] countries as Dr. Burks points out. And this is a chart-

Donald Trump: (02:30)
Number one low mortality rate. I hope you show this in there because it shows what fake news is all about. Go ahead.

Chris Wallace: (02:35)
I don’t think I’m fake news, but I will put-

Donald Trump: (02:37)
Today you were.

Chris Wallace: (02:37)
We’ll put our stats on.

Donald Trump: (02:38)
You said we had the worst mortality rate in the world, and we have the best.

Chris Wallace: (02:41)
I said you had the [crosstalk 00:02:42].

Speaker 2: (02:42)
All right, it’s a little complicated, but bear with us. We went with numbers from Johns Hopkins University, which charted the mortality rate for 20 countries hit by the virus. The US ranked seventh, better than the United Kingdom, but worse than Brazil and Russia. The White House went with this chart from the European CDC, which shows Italy and Spain doing worse, but countries like Brazil and South Korea doing better. Other countries doing better, like Russia, aren’t included in the White House chart.

Chris Wallace: (03:11)
California locking down again. Florida, deadliest day of the entire pandemic. Hospitals at capacity a number of places around the country, shortages of testing, shortages of personal protective equipment for nurses and doctors. A lot of people say this is because we don’t have a national plan. You talk about states, we don’t have a national plan. Do you take responsibility for that?

Donald Trump: (03:35)
Look, I take responsibility always for everything because it’s ultimately my job to. I have to get everybody in line. Some governors have done well, some governors have done poorly. They’re supposed to have supplies they didn’t have, I supplied everybody. Now we have somewhat of a surge in certain areas and other areas we’re doing great, but we have a surge in certain areas. But you don’t hear people complaining about ventilators. We’ve got all the ventilators we can use. We’re supplying them to other countries. We go out into parking lots and everything, everybody gets a test. We find if we did half the testing, with all of that being said, I’m glad we did it. This is the right way to do it. I’m glad we did what we’re doing, but we have more tests by far than any country in the world.

Chris Wallace: (04:20)
But sir, testing is up 37%.

Donald Trump: (04:24)
Well, that’s good.

Chris Wallace: (04:25)
I understand. Cases are up 194%. It isn’t just that testing has gone up, it’s that the virus has spread. The positivity rate has increased. The virus is worse than it was.

Donald Trump: (04:37)
Many of those cases are young people that would heal in today. They have the sniffles and we put it down as a test. Many of them. Don’t forget, I guess it’s like 99.7%. People are going to get better. And in many cases, they’re going to get better very quickly. We go out and we look, and then on the news, look, if you go back to the news, even your wonderful competitors, you’ll see cases are up. Cases are up. Many of those cases shouldn’t even be cases. Cases are up because we have the best testing in the world, and we have the most testing. No country has ever done what we’ve done in terms of testing. We are the envy of the world. They call and they say the most incredible job anybody’s done is our job on testing, because we’re going to very shortly be up to 50 million tests. You look at other countries, they don’t even do tests. They do tests if somebody walks into the hospital, they’re sick, they’re really sick, they test them then, or they’ll test them in a doctor’s office. But they don’t go around and have massive areas of testing, and we do. And I’m glad we do, but it really skews the numbers.

Chris Wallace: (05:41)
I’m going to do you a favor, because I’m sure a lot of people listening right now are going to say, “Trump, he tries to play it down, he tries to make it not seem as serious as it is.”

Donald Trump: (05:50)
I don’t play it… I’m not [crosstalk 00:05:50]. No, this is very serious.

Chris Wallace: (05:50)
When you see 75,000 cases a day.

Donald Trump: (05:54)
Show me the death chart.

Chris Wallace: (05:55)
Well, I don’t have the death chart.

Donald Trump: (05:57)
Well, the death chart is much more important.

Chris Wallace: (05:59)
I can tell you the death chart is 1, 000 cases a day.

Donald Trump: (06:02)
Excuse me. It’s all too much. It shouldn’t be one case. It came from China, they should have never let it escape, they should have never let it out. But it is what it is. Take a look at Europe, take a look at the numbers in Europe. And by the way, they’re having surges.

Chris Wallace: (06:14)
I can tell you, cases are 6,000 in the whole European Union.

Donald Trump: (06:17)
They don’t test. They don’t test like we do.

Chris Wallace: (06:20)
Is it possible that they don’t have the virus as badly as we do?

Donald Trump: (06:22)
No, it’s possible that they don’t test. That’s what’s possible. We find cases, and many of those cases heal automatically. We’re finding in a way we’re creating trouble. Certainly we’re creating trouble for the fake news to come along and say, “Oh, we have more cases.” Look, we did something that nobody’s ever done. Not only the ventilators where we’re supplying them all over the world. We did a testing program, the likes of which nobody’s ever done before.

Chris Wallace: (06:48)
The head of the CDC, Dr. Redfield, said this on Tuesday.

Dr. Redfield: (06:52)
I do think the fall and the winter of 2020 and 2021 are going to be probably one of the most difficult times that we’ve experienced in American public health.

Chris Wallace: (07:01)
Do you agree with Dr. Redfield?

Donald Trump: (07:02)
I don’t know and I don’t think he knows. I don’t think anybody knows with this. This is a very tricky deal. Everybody thought the summer it would go away and it would come back in the fall. Well, in the summer it came, they used to say the heat was good for it and it really knocks it out. Remember? And then it might come back in the fall. So they got that one wrong. They got a lot wrong. They got a lot wrong, the World Health got a tremendous amount wrong. They basically did whatever China wanted them to. And we’ll save now almost $500 million a year, which is nice. But the World Health got a lot wrong.

Chris Wallace: (07:34)
But this is one of the sharpest criticisms of you.

Donald Trump: (07:37)
I agree.

Chris Wallace: (07:38)
People say that you talk about the world as you’d like to see it rather than follow the science.

Donald Trump: (07:44)
No, I-

Chris Wallace: (07:46)
Let me just ask the question, sir. Why on earth would your administration be involved in a campaign at this point to discredit Dr. Fauci, who is the nation’s top infectious disease expert?

Donald Trump: (07:59)
Because we’re not. If one man from my administration doesn’t like him because he made a few mistakes… Look, Dr. Fauci said don’t wear a mask. Dr. Fauci told me not to ban China, it would be a big mistake. I did it over and above his recommendation. Dr. Fauci then said, “You saved tens of thousands of lives more than that.” He said, “You saved tens of thousands of lives.” Dr. Fauci’s made some mistakes, but I have a very good… I spoke to him yesterday at length. I have a very good relationship with Dr. Fauci.

Chris Wallace: (08:28)
But, sir, this weekend your White House put out a series of statements, so-called mistakes that Dr. Fauci had made. One of your closest aides, one of your right-hand men, Daniel Scavino, put out this. Have you seen this? Dr. Faucet. It shows him as a leaker and an alarmest.

Donald Trump: (08:50)
I don’t know that he’s a leaker.

Chris Wallace: (08:51)
Why would he say that?

Donald Trump: (08:52)
He’s a little bit of an alarmest. That’s okay. A little bit of an alarmest.

Chris Wallace: (08:53)
He’s a bit of an alarmest?

Donald Trump: (08:55)
A little bit of an alarmest. Let me just say, Dr. Fauci, at the beginning… And again, I have a great relationship with him. I spoke to him at length yesterday. Dr. Fauci, at the beginning, said, “This will pass. Don’t worry about it. This will pass.” He was wrong. Dr. Fauci said, “Don’t ban China. Don’t ban China.” I did. He then admitted that I was right.

Chris Wallace: (09:13)
But you made mistakes, too.

Donald Trump: (09:14)
I guess everybody makes mistakes.

Chris Wallace: (09:15)
I was going to say, you said at one point-

Donald Trump: (09:17)
One person coming in from China and we have it under control. It’s going to be just fine.

Donald Trump: (09:24)
When you have 15 people, and the 15 within a couple of days is going to be down to close to zero, that’s a pretty good job we’ve done.

Donald Trump: (09:32)
I think we’re going to be very good with the coronavirus. I think that, at some point, that’s going to sort of just disappear, I hope.

Donald Trump: (09:40)
I’ll be right eventually. I will be right eventually.

Chris Wallace: (09:43)
I understand.

Donald Trump: (09:43)
I said it’s going to disappear. I’ll say it again, it’s going to disappear, and I’ll be right.

Chris Wallace: (09:47)
But does that discredit you?

Donald Trump: (09:47)
I don’t think so.

Chris Wallace: (09:48)
Right.

Donald Trump: (09:49)
I don’t think so. You know why it doesn’t discredit me? Because I’ve been right probably more than anybody else.

Chris Wallace: (09:54)
Then there are masks. From the first day that the CDC said that people should wear a mask on April third, you said you weren’t going to. You wore a mask for the first time in public at Walter Reed this weekend. Question, the CDC says, “If everybody wore a mask for four to six weeks, we could get this under control.” Do you regret not wearing a mask in public from the start, and will you consider a national mandate that people need to wear masks?

Donald Trump: (10:24)
No, I want people to have a certain freedom and I don’t believe in that. No. And I don’t agree with the statement that if everybody wore a mask everything disappears. Hey, Dr. Fauci said don’t wear a mask. Our surgeon general, terrific guy, said don’t wear a mask. Everybody was saying don’t wear a mask. All of a sudden everybody’s got to wear a mask. And as you know, masks cause problems, too. With that being said, I’m a believer in masks. I think masks are good. But I leave it up to the governors. Many of the governors are changing, they’re more mask into, they like the concept of masks. But some of them don’t agree. I do say this, schools have to open, young people have to go to school and there’s…

Donald Trump: (11:03)
… Have to open. Young people have to go to school and there’s problems when you don’t go to school too. And there’s going to be a funding problem because we’re not going to fund … When they don’t open their schools, we’re not going to fund them. We’re not going to give them money, if they’re not going to school, if they don’t open their schools.

Chris Wallace: (11:15)
Two points on that. First of all, what the federal government gives is eight percent.

Donald Trump: (11:20)
It’s 10%, and you know what? That’s a lot of money.

Chris Wallace: (11:24)
You know where the money goes? It goes overwhelmingly to disadvantaged kids and children with disabilities.

Donald Trump: (11:31)
Let the schools-

Chris Wallace: (11:31)
Why wouldn’t you send more money, so the schools will be safer.

Donald Trump: (11:34)
Chris, let the schools open. Did you ever see the statistics on young people below the age of 18? The state of New Jersey had thousands of deaths. Of all of these thousands, one person below the age of 18 in the entire state, one person. And that was a person that had, I believe he said diabetes. One person below the age of 18 died in the state of New Jersey during all of this. They had a hard time and they’re doing very well now. So that’s it.

Chris Wallace: (12:04)
The stimulus bill is running out the end of this month.

Donald Trump: (12:07)
Yeah.

Chris Wallace: (12:08)
The Republicans say they want liability limits, which the Democrats don’t like. You say that you want a payroll tax cut, which even some Republicans are cool to.

Donald Trump: (12:19)
Well a lot of Republicans like it, though. You know what I mean?

Chris Wallace: (12:21)
Will you only sign a bill that has those two provisions?

Donald Trump: (12:25)
Well, we’re going to see, but we do need protections because businesses are going to get sued just because somebody walked in. You don’t know where this virus comes from. They’ll sit down at a restaurant, they’ll sue the restaurant, the guy’s out of business.

Chris Wallace: (12:35)
Right.

Donald Trump: (12:35)
So we do need some kind of immunity. You do need it, just like you need immunity for the police. Okay? Whether they like it or not, you need immunity for the police, but they do need a form of immunity. You don’t know if they caught it and nobody’s ever going to be able to prove it one way or the other. You can’t put the people out. Look, the Democrats don’t want to do that because they’re totally captured by the lobby of lawyers. The lawyers lobby is probably the most powerful in the country.

Chris Wallace: (13:01)
What about the payroll tax cut?

Donald Trump: (13:02)
I want to see it. I want to see it.

Chris Wallace: (13:06)
It is in the bill?

Donald Trump: (13:06)
I’ll have to see. But yeah, I would consider not signing it, if we don’t have a payroll tax cut. Yes.

Chris Wallace: (13:12)
Hot enough for you here, Mr. President?

Donald Trump: (13:13)
It’s hot. Well, it’s almost record breaking stuff.

Chris Wallace: (13:18)
We wanted to do it inside. This was your choice.

Donald Trump: (13:20)
And I wanted you to sweat a little bit.

Chris Wallace: (13:22)
Well, we both are. There has been a spike in violent crime in America in recent weeks. We’ve seen deaths up in New York, deaths up in Chicago, shootings. How do you explain it? And what are you going to do about it?

Donald Trump: (13:37)
I explain it very simply by saying, their Democrat run cities, they’re liberally run. They’re stupidly run. We have a forced them in Seattle to end the chop because we were going in that following day. You probably have heard it. We were getting ready to go in. We were all set. And when they heard that we were going, they set their police force.

Chris Wallace: (13:56)
Liberal Democrats have been running cities in this country for decades.

Donald Trump: (14:00)
Poorly.

Chris Wallace: (14:00)
Why is it so bad right now?

Donald Trump: (14:03)
They’ve run them poorly. It was always bad, but now it’s gotten totally out of control. And it’s really because they want to defund the police and Biden wants to defund the police.

Chris Wallace: (14:12)
Sire, he does not.

Donald Trump: (14:13)
Look, he signed a charter with Bernie Sanders. I will get that one. Just like I was right in the mortality rate. Did you read the chart of that he agreed to?

Chris Wallace: (14:24)
It says nothing about defunding the police.

Donald Trump: (14:25)
Oh, really? It says abolish. It says, defund. Let’s go.

Chris Wallace: (14:27)
All right.

Donald Trump: (14:28)
Get me the charter, please.

Chris Wallace: (14:29)
All right to that.

Donald Trump: (14:30)
Chris, you’ve got to start studying for these.

Chris Wallace: (14:31)
He says, defund the police?

Donald Trump: (14:34)
He says, defund the police. They talk about abolishing the police. They talk about illegal aliens pouring-

Chris Wallace: (14:41)
I look forward to seeing that. Meanwhile, the George Floyd murder has re-ignited the issue of racism in policing in this country. I want to give you a couple of statistics. Nationwide, blacks are twice as likely, fewer in absolute numbers, but in terms of per capita. Blacks are twice as likely to be shot and killed by police as whites are. In Minneapolis over the last five years, police use force against blacks at a rate seven times that against whites. Can you understand why blacks would be angry at that?

Donald Trump: (15:13)
Of course, I do. Of course, I do. Many whites are killed, also. You have to say that. I mean, many, many whites are killed. I hate the sound, but this is going on for decades. This is going on for a long time. Long before I got here. If you look at what’s going on in Portland, those are anarchists and we’ve taken a very tough stand. If we didn’t take a stand in Portland, we’ve arrested many of these leaders. If we didn’t take that stand right now, you would have a problem like … They were going to lose Portland. So let’s see what this says here. Prosecution, sanctuary cities, incentivize illegal alien, expand asylum, abolish immigration detention.

Chris Wallace: (15:53)
That’s not-

Donald Trump: (15:53)
Well, no. We’ll find it.

Chris Wallace: (15:55)
Okay.

Donald Trump: (15:55)
This thing is many pages long. End prosecution of illegal border crossers, Support deathly. And these are the worst-[crosstalk 00:16:05]

Chris Wallace: (16:04)
Sir, I’m not disagreeing with you on any of those. I’m disagreeing about defund police.

Chris Wallace: (16:09)
The White House never sent us evidence, the Bernie, Biden platform calls for defunding or abolishing police because there is none. It calls for increased funding for police departments that meet certain standards. Biden has called for redirecting some police funding for related programs like mental health counseling.

Chris Wallace: (16:28)
This week, you said that Black Lives Matter and the Confederate flag are both issues of freedom of speech.

Donald Trump: (16:35)
Yeah.

Chris Wallace: (16:36)
But in the case of the Confederate flag, there are a lot of people who say these were traders who split from this country, fought this country in large part to preserve slavery. Is the Confederate flag offensive?

Donald Trump: (16:53)
It depends on who you’re talking about, when you’re talking about. When people proudly have their Confederate flags, they’re not talking about racism. They love their flag. It represents the South. They like the South. People right now like the South. I say it’s freedom of many things, but it’s freedom of speech.

Chris Wallace: (17:09)
So you’re not offended by it?

Donald Trump: (17:10)
Well, I’m not offended either by Black Lives Matter. That’s freedom of speech. And the whole thing with cancel culture. We can’t cancel our whole history. We can’t forget that the North and the South fought. We have to remember that. Otherwise, we’ll end up fighting again. You can’t just cancel all-

Chris Wallace: (17:28)
But let me ask you this one. It gets to be more than just canceled. Well, maybe this is canceled culture. The National Defense Authorization Act, the NDAA. You have threatened to veto it because in the bill, and this is supported by Republicans as well as Democrats that would rename army bases named for Confederate generals. Now, this is a bill that funds military operations. It gives the soldiers a pay raise. You’re going to veto that?

Donald Trump: (17:55)
No, because they’ll get their pay raise. Hey look, don’t tell me this. I got soldiers the biggest pay raises in the history of our military. I got soldiers, brand new equipment, brand new jets, brand new rockets, brand new … Two point five trillion. I did more for the military than any president that’s ever had this office.

Chris Wallace: (18:12)
But you’re going to veto this one?

Donald Trump: (18:12)
Because I think that Fort Bragg, Fort Robert E. Lee, all of these forts that have been named that way for a long time, decades and decades.

Chris Wallace: (18:21)
But the military says they’re for this.

Donald Trump: (18:23)
Excuse me, excuse me. I don’t care what the military says. I’m supposed to make the decision. Fort Bragg is a big deal. We won two World Wars. Nobody even knows General Bragg. We won two World Wars. Go to that community where Fort Bragg is, in a great state. I love that state. Go to the community. Say, “How do you like the idea of renaming Fort Bragg?” And then what are we going to name it? You’re going to name it after the Reverend Al Sharpton, what are you going to name it, Chris? Tell me what you’re going to name it. So there’s a whole thing here. We won two World Wars, two World Wars. Beautiful world Wars that were vicious and horrible. And we won them out of Fort Bragg. We won it out of all these forts and now they want to throw those names away.

Donald Trump: (19:09)
And no, I’m against that. And you know what most other people are. And I don’t believe in polls because I see the fakest polls I’ve ever seen. But that poll is a 64% thing, which actually surprised me. We won World Wars out of these military bases. No, I’m not going to go changing them. I’m not going to go changing them.

Chris Wallace: (19:29)
So you’ll veto that?

Donald Trump: (19:30)
I might. Yeah. I might.

Chris Wallace: (19:32)
At Mount Rushmore on July 3rd. You said that we face a far left fascism in this country. And then you said this.

Donald Trump: (19:39)
Our children are taught in school to hate their own country. And to believe that the men and women who built it were not heroes, but that were villains.

Chris Wallace: (19:52)
You said, “Our children are taught in school to hate our country.” Where do you see that?

Donald Trump: (19:58)
I just look at school. I watch, I read. Look at the stuff. Now they want to change, 1492 Columbus discovered America. We grew up, you grew up, we all did. That’s what we learned. Now, they want to make it the 1619 Project. Where did that come from? What does it represent? I don’t even know.

Chris Wallace: (20:16)
It’s slavery.

Donald Trump: (20:17)
That’s what they’re saying, but they don’t even know it. They just want to make a change. Cancel culture, I hate the term actually, but I use it. Cancel culture.

Chris Wallace: (20:24)
But are they teaching people to hate America?

Donald Trump: (20:25)
I think so. Yeah. I think so. Look at the professors. Look at what’s going on in the colleges, if a conservator goes on a college. And look, we have as many as them. Excuse me, I think to the best of my knowledge was sitting at the White House and the Oval Office is right behind me. We have as many as them.

Chris Wallace: (20:43)
Who’s them?

Donald Trump: (20:44)
The liberal radical left. And I’m not talking all. I think liberal, I could tell you, I like a lot of liberal people. I like a lot of liberal governors, and senators, but Chris, we have a radical left destructive ideology and it’s being taught in our schools and don’t act like you’re surprised to hear this. There are books written about it and we can’t let that go on. We can’t let them change the true meaning of what we’re all about. And that’s what they’re trying to do. And I don’t want it to happen. Not on my watch. It’s not going to happen on my watch.

Chris Wallace: (21:20)
Mr. President, you’ll be happy to know that FOX News has a new poll out today. And you’re going to be the very first person to hear about it. In the national horse race, Joe Biden leads you by eight points, 49% to 41. That’s I think three, four points slimmer than it was a month ago.

Donald Trump: (21:40)
Fake polls.

Chris Wallace: (21:40)
And on the issues, people trust Biden more to handle the coronavirus by 17 points, on race relations by 21 points. And even on the economy, they trust Biden more, by one point. I understand we still have more than a 100 days to this election, but at this point you’re losing.

Donald Trump: (21:59)
First of all, I’m not losing because those are fake polls. They were faking …

Donald Trump: (22:03)
… Losing, because those are fake polls. They were fake in 2016 and now they’re even more fake. The polls were much worse in 2016. They interviewed 22% Republican. Well, how do you do 22% Republican? You see what’s going on. I have other polls that put me leading. And we have polls where I’m leading. I have a poll where we’re leading in every swing state. And I don’t believe that you’re… First of all, the Fox polls, whoever does your Fox polls, they’re among the worst. They got it all wrong in 2016. They’ve been wrong on every poll I’ve ever seen.

Chris Wallace: (22:35)
I must tell you-

Donald Trump: (22:35)
… No, I’m just telling you. And let me ask you this. So on the economy, so I’ve always led on the economy. By a lot.

Chris Wallace: (22:41)
I know, which is why I was surprised by this number.

Donald Trump: (22:42)
Biden can’t put two sentences together. They wheel him out, he goes up, he repeats, they ask him questions, he reads the teleprompter and then he goes back into his basement. You tell me the American people want to have that, in an age where we’re in trouble with other nations that are looking to do numbers on us.

Chris Wallace: (23:00)
So let me ask you a direct question. No, I’m going to ask you a direct question about Joe Biden. Is Joe Biden senile?

Donald Trump: (23:06)
I don’t want to say that. I say he’s not competent to be president. To be president you have to be sharp, and tough and so many other things. That he doesn’t even come out of his basement. They think, this is a great campaign. So he goes in, I’ll then make a speech. It’ll be a great speech. And some young guys start writing, “Vice President Biden said, this, this, this, this.” He didn’t say it. Joe doesn’t know he’s alive. Okay? He doesn’t know he’s alive. Do the American people want that? Number one. Number two, I built the greatest economy ever built anywhere in the world. Not only in this country, anywhere in the world, until we got hit with the China Virus. We got hit with a virus. Shouldn’t have happened. And we had to closeup. We saved millions of lives. Now we’ve opened it up.

Donald Trump: (23:47)
Got to go back to school. We’re open. You got to do things. We had the best job numbers we’ve ever had last month. We should have good ones coming up in two weeks. Look, I built the greatest economy in history. I’m now doing it again. You see the numbers, the numbers are through the roof. The Democrats are purposely keeping their schools closed, keeping their states closed. I called Michigan. I want to have a big rally in Michigan. Do you know we’re not allowed to have a rally in Michigan? Do you know what not allowed to have a rally in Minnesota? Do you know we’re not allowed to have a rally in Nevada? We’re not allowed to have rallies.

Chris Wallace: (24:19)
Well, some people would say [crosstalk 00:24:20].

Donald Trump: (24:20)
In these Democrat run states.

Chris Wallace: (24:21)
Wait a minute. Some people would say that that’s a health risk.

Donald Trump: (24:23)
Some people would say fine. But I guarantee you [crosstalk 00:24:26].

Chris Wallace: (24:26)
We had some issues after Tulsa.

Donald Trump: (24:27)
If everything was gone 100%, they still wouldn’t allow it. They’re not allowing me to do it. So they’re not allowing me to have rallies.

Chris Wallace: (24:35)
But, I got to tell you, if I may, sir, respectfully. In the Fox poll, they asked people who is more competent. Who’s mind is sounder? Biden beats you in that.

Donald Trump: (24:46)
Well, I tell you what. Let’s take a test. Let’s take a test right now. Let’s go down, Joe and I will take a test. Let him take the same test that I took.

Chris Wallace: (24:56)
Incidentally, I took the test too when I heard that you passed it.

Donald Trump: (24:59)
Yeah. How did you do?

Chris Wallace: (25:00)
It’s not the hardest test.

Donald Trump: (25:01)
No.

Chris Wallace: (25:01)
It’s a picture and it says, “What’s that?” And it’s an elephant.

Donald Trump: (25:04)
No, no, no. See, that’s all misrepresentation.

Chris Wallace: (25:07)
That’s what it was on the web.

Donald Trump: (25:07)
It’s all misrepresentation. Because yes, the first few questions are easy. But I’ll bet you couldn’t even answer the last five questions. I’ll bet you couldn’t. They get very hard, the last five questions.

Chris Wallace: (25:16)
Well, one of them was count back from 100 by seven.

Donald Trump: (25:19)
And let me tell you, you couldn’t answer many of the questions.

Chris Wallace: (25:26)
All right. What’s the questions?

Donald Trump: (25:26)
I’d get you the test. I’d like to give it, but I guarantee you that Joe Biden could not answer those questions.

Chris Wallace: (25:31)
Okay.

Donald Trump: (25:32)
Okay? And I answered all 35 questions correctly.

Chris Wallace: (25:35)
You talk about how you’re winning, campaigns going well. Why did you replace Brad Parscale? Isn’t that-

Donald Trump: (25:42)
… Because he’s a great digital guy. We all like him a lot. But I have somebody that was involved. They were all on the 2016 campaign.

Chris Wallace: (25:52)
Right.

Donald Trump: (25:52)
And we have Corey and we have all the people. And actually, Steve Bannon’s been much better not being involved. He says, “The greatest president ever.” I mean, he’s saying things that I said, “Let’s keep Steve out there. He’s doing a good job.” But, they’re all involved. If Joe Biden got in, first of all, he won’t call the shots. The people, the radical left people that surround him will call. Religion will be gone. Okay? Life, you could forget about that. The whole question of life.

Chris Wallace: (26:19)
When you say life, you mean abortion?

Donald Trump: (26:21)
Absolutely. 100%. That whole question, which is a very… It’s always been a 50/50 thing.

Chris Wallace: (26:27)
I understand.

Donald Trump: (26:27)
It’s actually trending a little bit more toward one side.

Chris Wallace: (26:30)
When you say religion is going to be gone, what does that mean?

Donald Trump: (26:33)
Look at what they’re doing to the churches. They won’t let the churches even open if they want to stand in a field six feet apart. We’ve had churches that wanted to stand in fields, six feet apart. There has never been an administration that’s done so much as I have. From tax cuts, to regulation cuts, to rebuilding the military, to getting choice for the vets. Nobody’s done the things I’ve done. Nobody. In three and a half years, no other president has been able to do what I’ve done.

Chris Wallace: (27:01)
You’re running in large part on the economy. You built it once. Now we have the coronavirus. You’re going to build it again? And in fact, you had great jobs numbers in May. You had solid jobs numbers in June. But I want you to look at some projections. The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the unemployment rate at the end of the year will be 10.5%. JP Morgan says in the fourth quarter, GDP will contract by 6.2%. With states now rolling back some of the reopening-

Donald Trump: (27:33)
… On purpose.

Chris Wallace: (27:34)
Well, there are a lot of Republican states that are doing it, like Texas.

Donald Trump: (27:39)
There’ll be open very soon.

Chris Wallace: (27:40)
Let me just ask my question.

Donald Trump: (27:41)
There’s no reason for California to be doing what they’re doing.

Chris Wallace: (27:44)
All right.

Donald Trump: (27:44)
Except for November 3rd.

Chris Wallace: (27:46)
With the states shutting back their reopening, in a lot of cases new lock downs, won’t the economy still be a problem for you on election day?

Donald Trump: (27:55)
I think so. I think the economy is expanding and growing beautifully. Now, the Democrats want to keep it closed as long as possible because they think that’s good for election. But I think the economy is doing very well. Now, we’re coming back. And we’re coming back at a level that nobody would have thought possible. And by the way, take a look at another… I mean, a gauge, whether you like it or not, the stock market. The stock market, NASDAQ hit its all time high two weeks ago. And it’s beaten it 14 different times. Okay? The stock market, Dow, et cetera, is 1,000 points away from its all time high. Meaning, very close. We’re going to have a stock market, perhaps on November 3rd, that’s the highest in history.

Chris Wallace: (28:40)
I want to talk to you about Obamacare. Since the pandemic hit, millions of people have lost their jobs and thereby lost their health insurance. And almost a half a million have signed up for Obamacare. Your administration just announced that you’re signing on to a lawsuit to overturn Obamacare.

Donald Trump: (28:56)
And replace it.

Chris Wallace: (28:58)
Why does it make sense to overturn Obamacare with which people now are relying on? Democrats are going to say, “The man who’s wanted to kill Obamacare is going to take away the protection for preexisting conditions.”

Donald Trump: (29:09)
First of all, we got rid of the individual mandate. Preexisting conditions will always be taken care of by me and Republicans. 100%.

Chris Wallace: (29:16)
But you’ve been in the office three and a half years. You don’t have a plan.

Donald Trump: (29:18)
We haven’t had… Excuse me. You heard me yesterday. We’re signing a healthcare plan within two weeks. A full and complete health care plan that the Supreme Court decision on DACA gave me the right to do. So we’re going to solve… We’re going to sign an immigration plan, a healthcare plan and various other plans. And nobody will have done what I’m doing in the next four weeks. The Supreme Court gave the President of the United States powers that nobody thought the president had, by approving, by doing what they did, their decision on DACA. And DACA is going to be taken care of also. But we’re getting rid of it because we’re going to replace it with something much better. But we got rid of already, which was most of Obamacare, the individual mandate. And that I’ve already won on. And we won also on the Supreme Court. But the decision by the Supreme Court on DACA allows me to do things on immigration, on healthcare, on other things that we’ve never done before. And you’re going to find it to be a very exciting two weeks.

Chris Wallace: (30:22)
Your niece, Mary Trump, has written a book about you and your family. And one of her main points is that she says your dad, Fred Trump Sr., damaged the whole family. And here’s what she says about what you learned from your father.

Mary Trump: (30:39)
He learned to become the killer, you mentioned. The man who needs to succeed at all costs. Who will do anything to get attention, financial rewards and to win.

Chris Wallace: (31:00)
Do you see any truth in that?

Donald Trump: (31:02)
My father liked to win. My father was a very good man. He was a strong man. It’s disgraceful that she said that. She was not exactly a family favorite. We didn’t have a lot of respect or like for her. I would have never said that, except she writes a book that’s so stupid and so vicious. And it’s a lie. My father was a great, wonderful man.

Chris Wallace: (31:21)
Let me just ask you this question-

Donald Trump: (31:22)
… But, this is not a person that I spent very much time with. Very little time. And now I’m glad.

Chris Wallace: (31:29)
You’ve developed a pretty thick skin over the years from decades of attacks in New York tabloids, now from the press here and your political opponents here in Washington. But even for Donald Trump, does it hurt you at all to be attacked in such personal terms by a member of your own family?

Donald Trump: (31:49)
It hurts me more about attacking my father, not being kind to my mother. I have a mother who was like a Saint. She was incredible. She was an incredible woman. And she was nasty even to my mother. She’s a very scarred person. She was not much of a family person. But look, let me just tell you, my father was… I think he was the most solid person I’ve ever met. And he was a very good person. He was a very, very good person. He was strong, but he was good.

Donald Trump: (32:18)
For her to say the kind of things, a psychopath, that he was a psychopath. Anybody that knew Fred Trump would call him a psychopath. And you know what, if he was, I would tell you. And I would say, “You know, Chris, I was with my father and it was impossible.” My father was… He was tough. He was tough on me. He was tough on all of the kids. But tough in a solid sense, in a really good sense. For her to say, I think the word she used was psychopath. What a disgrace. She ought to be ashamed of itself. That book is a lie.

Chris Wallace: (32:48)
Some people were surprised when you agreed to this interview, to sit down with me.

Donald Trump: (32:54)
What are you going to ask?

Chris Wallace: (32:55)
Especially because of some of the mean tweets that you’ve said about me. ” Mike Wallace wannabe. Nasty and obnoxious.” I will tell you-

Chris Wallace: (33:03)
… “Mike Wallace wannabe … nasty and obnoxious.” I will tell you, after that one, my son, Peter, whom you’ve met, called and he said, “Nasty? No. Obnoxious? Maybe.” But here’s the question. One of your beefs seems to be that I put Democrats on the show, and I ask them questions, and I guess the question I have is don’t you understand it’s my job to put Democrats on as well as Republicans, and to ask them probing questions, just like I ask Republicans?

Donald Trump: (33:28)
I’m not a big fan of Fox. I’ll be honest with you. They’ve changed a lot since Roger Ailes, and I watch people like Swalwell, who I don’t even know. He goes on the show. He got less than 1%. All of a sudden, he’s on being interviewed for endless [crosstalk 00:33:42].

Chris Wallace: (33:42)
Yeah, but I interviewed Nancy …

Donald Trump: (33:43)
I don’t know him.

Chris Wallace: (33:43)
Wait, I interviewed-

Donald Trump: (33:45)
I watched the nastiest people.

Chris Wallace: (33:47)
I interviewed, you sent one tweet after I interviewed Nancy Pelosi, and in the interview, I asked her specifically about the fact in February, you were in Chinatown pitching tourism while the virus was spreading.

Chris Wallace: (33:59)
If the president underplayed the threat in the early days, Speaker Pelosi, didn’t you as well?

Chris Wallace: (34:06)
Isn’t that legitimate to talk to the Speaker of the House?

Donald Trump: (34:09)
I would just say that … Look, I know you very well. I respect you a lot. I respect your father a lot. I thought he was one of the most talented journalists there are, and you likewise are a very talented person. I do think this. I think you are very … I think you are toward the Democrat side, which is okay. I mean, it’s okay.

Chris Wallace: (34:26)
It’s not … Watch the James Comey interview I did in December. 17 significant errors in the FISA process, and you say that it was handled in a thoughtful and appropriate way.

James Comey: (34:39)
Yeah, he’s right. I was wrong.

Chris Wallace: (34:40)
But you make it sound like you’re a bystander, an eyewitness. You were the director of the FBI while a lot of this was going on, sir.

James Comey: (34:47)
Sure. I’m responsible for … That’s why I’m telling you I was wrong. I was overconfident as director in our procedures.

Chris Wallace: (34:54)
You couldn’t do as tough an interview with Comey. I’d like to think I treat everybody the same.

Donald Trump: (34:59)
It just seems to me that you are very prone to be nice to the Democrats, and maybe I’m wrong about that, Chris, but it’s an honor to be with you. It’s fine. I love it. I love that it’s close to a hundred degrees out today.

Chris Wallace: (35:09)
Your choice again.

Donald Trump: (35:10)
Yeah, I know, that’s okay.

Chris Wallace: (35:11)
I’m not saying you’re going to lose. I am not saying that. We saw how you turned it around last time.

Donald Trump: (35:16)
I don’t think I’m going to lose at all.

Chris Wallace: (35:17)
But if you did, how crushing would it be to you?

Donald Trump: (35:20)
First of all, let me just tell you something. I know everyone wants to know that, because they’d love to see me lose finally.

Chris Wallace: (35:24)
I’m not … I am not saying that at all.

Donald Trump: (35:26)
You know how many times I’ve been written off? Do you know how many times I’ve been written off?

Chris Wallace: (35:29)
I’ve done some of it myself, sir.

Donald Trump: (35:30)
My whole life.

Chris Wallace: (35:31)
I’m not doing it this time.

Donald Trump: (35:32)
Don’t do it, because it would be bad.

Chris Wallace: (35:34)
But how crushing would it be?

Donald Trump: (35:35)
And you know why I won’t lose? Because the country, in the end, they’re not going to have a man who’s shot. He’s shot. He’s mentally shot. Let him come out of his basement, go around. I’ll make four, five speeches a day. I’ll be interviewed by you. I’ll be interviewed by the worst killers that hate my guts. They hate my guts. There’s nothing they can ask me that I won’t give them a proper answer to. Some people will like it. Some people won’t like it.

Chris Wallace: (36:01)
I agree with that.

Donald Trump: (36:02)
But, look.

Chris Wallace: (36:03)
You answer the questions.

Donald Trump: (36:04)
Let Biden sit through an interview like this. He’ll be on the ground crying for Mommy. He’ll say, “Mommy, Mommy, please take me home.”

Chris Wallace: (36:10)
Well, we’ve asked him for an interview, sir.

Donald Trump: (36:12)
He can’t do an interview. He’s incompetent. There’s a number you don’t mention. It’s called the enthusiasm number. The enthusiasm for Trump is through the roof, even higher …

Chris Wallace: (36:22)
I have mentioned it.

Donald Trump: (36:22)
… even higher than last time. The enthusiasm for Biden is nonexistent. Everyone knows he’s shot.

Chris Wallace: (36:27)
But the enthusiasm against you is high.

Donald Trump: (36:30)
Well, that’s okay. That’s his only shot. I mean, that’s his only shot.

Chris Wallace: (36:32)
Right.

Donald Trump: (36:32)
I agree. Those people know I’m doing a good job, but there’s something in my personality that they don’t like, because look, nobody’s done what I’ve done. Biden wants to come in and ruin our country, triple your taxes. He wants to do things. He wants to add regulations that I’ve all cut, and we still have regulation, a lot of regulation, but I’ve cut it down to a level that nobody ever thought possible. He will destroy this country, but it won’t be him. It will be the radical left, the same type ideology that took over Venezuela, one of the richest countries in the world. They now have no water. They have no food, and they have no medicine. That’s going to happen here if he wins.

Chris Wallace: (37:12)
Two final questions. In general, not talking about November, are you a good loser?

Donald Trump: (37:19)
I’m not a good loser. I don’t like to lose. I don’t lose too often. I don’t like to lose.

Chris Wallace: (37:24)
But are you gracious?

Donald Trump: (37:25)
You don’t know until you see. It depends. I think mail-in voting is going to rig the election, I really do.

Chris Wallace: (37:32)
Are you suggesting that you might not accept the results of the election?

Donald Trump: (37:35)
I have to see. Look, Hillary Clinton asked me the same thing.

Chris Wallace: (37:38)
No, I asked you the same thing at the debate.

Donald Trump: (37:40)
No, no. But-

Chris Wallace: (37:40)
There is a tradition in this country, in fact, one of the prides of this country, is the peaceful transition of power, and that no matter how hard fought a campaign is, that at the end of the campaign, that the loser concedes to the winner. Not saying that you’re necessarily going to be the loser or the winner, but that the loser concedes to the winner, and that the country comes together in part for the good of the country. Are you saying you’re not prepared now to commit to that principle?

Donald Trump: (38:05)
What I’m saying is that I will tell you at the time. I’ll keep you in suspense.

Hillary Clinton: (38:09)
Well, Chris …

Donald Trump: (38:11)
And you know what? She’s the one that never accepted it.

Chris Wallace: (38:14)
I agree.

Donald Trump: (38:14)
She never accepted her loss, and she looks like a fool.

Chris Wallace: (38:17)
But can you give a direct answer, you will accept the election?

Donald Trump: (38:19)
I have to see. Look, I have to see. No, I’m not going to just say yes. I’m not going to say [inaudible 00:38:24], and I didn’t last time either.

Chris Wallace: (38:25)
Whether it’s in 2021 or 2025, how will you regard your years as president of the United States?

Donald Trump: (38:33)
I think I was very unfairly treated from before I even won. I was under investigation by a bunch of thieves, crooks. It was an illegal investigation. Russia, Russia, Russia.

Chris Wallace: (38:42)
But what about the good parts, sir?

Donald Trump: (38:44)
No, no. I want to go this. I have done more than any president in history in the first three and a half years, and I’ve done it suffering through investigations where people have been, General Flynn, where people have been so unfairly treated. The Russia hoax, it was all a hoax. The Mueller scam, it was all a scam. It was all false. I made a bad decision on one bad decision, Jeff Sessions, and now I feel good, because he lost overwhelmingly in the great state of Alabama. Here’s the bottom line. I’ve been very unfairly treated, and I don’t say that as paranoid. I’ve been very … Everybody says it. It’s going to be interesting to see what happens, but there’s tremendous evidence right now as to how unfairly treated I was.

Donald Trump: (39:25)
President Obama and Biden spied on my campaign. It’s never happened in history. If it were the other way around, the people would be in jail for 50 years right now. That would be Comey. That would be Brennan. That would be all of this, the two lovers, Strzok and Page. They would be in jail now for many, many years. They would be in jail. It would’ve started two years ago, and they’d be there for 50 years. The fact is, they illegally spied on my campaign. Let’s see what happens. Despite that, I did more than any president in history in the first three and a half years.

Chris Wallace: (40:03)
Mr. President, thank you. Thanks for talking with us.

Donald Trump: (40:06)
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.